In the previous notebook,
you put your skills to work using SVD on a subset of the MovieTweetings data.
The first talking point from your analysis is that your latent factors weren't labeled,
so we might be able to get an idea of the latent factors based on how the weights,
appear across different movies but we don't have
a nice known label on the feature like I made it seem in the previous video.
This is what makes a feature latent.
The second talking point is that we found out that the sigma matrix holds values
that can tell us how much of the variability in the original user movie matrix,
can be explained by a particular latent factor.
This is useful because you might not need
all the latent features to make a good prediction.
Looking at the elements in the sigma matrix,
can give an indication of how many latent factors you might want to keep.
By squaring each of these diagonal elements and adding them together,
we can obtain the total variability to be explained in the matrix.
Then the amount of variability explained by each latent feature can be
found as the ratio of the square diagonal element divided by this sum.
The final and most important point,
is that we can't use SVD when our matrix has missing values.
Traditional SVD is great for situations that look like this,
as these types of matrices have eigenvalues and eigenvectors.
However, it isn't great for this situation,
this is terrible news.
Because when we make our recommendations,
our matrices tend to look a lot closer to this.
This is where Simon Funks version of SVD comes in to help.